The President: Hi, everybody.
My top priority as President
is to grow the economy
and help more hardworking
Americans get ahead.
And after the worst economic
crisis in our lifetimes,
our businesses have now
created 12.6 million
new jobs over the
past 63 months.
That's a record streak
of job creation.
And it's come as we've been
working to reform our schools,
revitalize manufacturing
and the auto industry,
revamp our job training
programs - and rework
our health care system,
covering more than
16 million uninsured
Americans so far.
We've done all of this to
rebuild our economy on a new
foundation, a foundation
for growth that benefits
not only us, but our
kids, and their kids.
Because we do live
in a new economy.
And we've got to adapt to
make sure America leads
the way in this new
century, just like we did
in the last.
Part of that means sparking
new sources of growth
and job creation that keep
us on the cutting edge.
And one big way to do that
is through smart new trade
agreements that level the
playing field for our
workers, open new markets
for our businesses,
and hold other countries
to the kinds of high
standards that Americans
are proud to hold ourselves
to here at home.
Simply put, America
has to write the rules
of the 21st century
economy in a way that
benefits American workers.
If we don't, countries like
China will write those
rules in a way that
benefits their workers.
Now, on Friday,
Republicans and Democrats
in the House of
Representatives voted
to help the United States
negotiate new trade deals
that are both free and
fair - deals that expand
opportunity for our workers
and our businesses alike.
And that's good.
These kinds of trade deals
say no to a race for
the bottom, for lower wages
and working conditions.
They're about starting a race
to the top, for higher wages,
and better working conditions,
stronger environmental
protections, and a
smarter way to crack down
on countries that break the
rules of the global economy.
But that's not all we should
be doing for our workers.
Right now, something called
Trade Adjustment Assistance
provides vital support,
like job-training
and community college
education, to tens of thousands
of American workers each
year who were hurt by past
trade deals - the kind we're
not going to repeat again.
Republicans and Democrats in
the Senate have voted to renew
this initiative, but so far,
the House of Representatives
has chosen to let it expire
in just a few months,
leaving as many as
100,000 American workers
on their own.
For the sake of those
workers, their families,
and their communities, I urge
those Members of Congress who
voted against Trade Adjustment
Assistance to reconsider,
and stand up for
American workers.
Because these smart new
trade deals aren't just
about growing our economy
and supporting good
new American jobs.
This is about the kind
of country we want
to build for our kids
and our grandkids.
And if I did not think
that smart new trade deals
were the right thing to
do for working families,
I wouldn't be
fighting for it.
This is the right
thing to do.
Trade that's fair and
free and smart will
grow opportunity for
our middle class.
It will help us restore
the dream we share,
and make sure that every
American who works hard
has a chance to get ahead.
That's a cause worth
fighting for - today,
and every day I have
the honor of serving
as your President.
Thanks everybody, and
have a great weekend.